# Basic Hello World for ESP-IDF blink on ESP32-C6 (I have ESP32-C6-DevkitC-1) and PlatformIO

This repo is for ESP-IDF with PlatformIO. If you would rather use Arduino [go here to find my basic blink example in Arduino](https://github.com/Graunephar/Esp32-C6-on-board-RGB-LED-example-in-Arduino-and-PlatformIO).

# About the code
This repo contains all the necessary code to get the ESP32-C6 to run the [blink example provided by Espressif in ESP-IDF](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/blob/master/examples/get-started/blink/main/blink_example_main.c). The `main.c` file is just that code without any changes.

The contribution of the repo is an easy-to-use configuration with the build environment already provided and all the other build flags already set. See `platformio.ini` for the necessary build flags.

In some ways, Espressif's build really is overly complicated. If you wanted a basic blink sketch that was as simple as possible, this is not it. Since it supports multiple scenarios and hardware, and changes behavior based on the build flags set in `platformio.ini`. For most real-world scenarios, it's pretty meaningless. However, it's a good example of the whole build system, including the environment set in `platformio.ini` and `sdkconfig`.

The current build flags are configured to use the on-board LED. However, since the blink example from ESP-IDF also supports an external LED, it can easily be reconfigured to use an external LED by changing the flags set in `platformio.ini`.

# Requirements
Before getting started with the project, make sure you have PlatformIO Core and `esptool.py` installed.

## PlatformIO Core
If you are on a Mac like me, just install it with Homebrew by running `brew install pio`.

Otherwise, PlatformIO has a guide on their website on [how to install PlatformIO Core](https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/core/installation/index.html), which is a CLI tool.

## esptool.py
A command-line tool for managing ESP. Can be installed with pip. 
````
▶ pip install esptool # install ESP tool if you do nbot have already
````

Espressif also has [a handy guide](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esptool/en/latest/esp32/installation.html) showing how to install it on different systems.

# Setup

Before running, make sure your board's flash size is set in `sdkconfig.defaults`. If you are unsure which specific flash size your board has, run the below command to check.

````
▶ esptool.py --port /dev/cu.usbmodem21401 flash_id

````

Expected output:
````
esptool.py v4.8.1
Serial port /dev/cu.usbmodem21401
Connecting...
Detecting chip type... ESP32-C6
Chip is ESP32-C6 (QFN40) (revision v0.1)
Features: WiFi 6, BT 5, IEEE802.15.4
Crystal is 40MHz
MAC: 40:4c:ca:ff:fe:5f:7f:14
BASE MAC: 40:4c:ca:5f:7f:14
MAC_EXT: ff:fe
Uploading stub...
Running stub...
Stub running...
Manufacturer: c8
Device: 4017
Detected flash size: 8MB
Hard resetting via RTS pin...
````

As you can see, mine has 8MB of flash. Therefore, the content of `sdkconfig.defaults` needs to be:
`CONFIG_ESPTOOLPY_FLASHSIZE_8MB=y`

If you have another flash size on your board make sure the line in sdkconfig.defaults matches that flash size. Below is some examples. 

````
CONFIG_ESPTOOLPY_FLASHSIZE_1MB=y
CONFIG_ESPTOOLPY_FLASHSIZE_2MB=y
CONFIG_ESPTOOLPY_FLASHSIZE_4MB=y
CONFIG_ESPTOOLPY_FLASHSIZE_8MB=y
CONFIG_ESPTOOLPY_FLASHSIZE_16MB=y
CONFIG_ESPTOOLPY_FLASHSIZE_32MB=y
CONFIG_ESPTOOLPY_FLASHSIZE_64MB=y
````

Choose only one of the lines above that matches your flash size and put it in `sdkconfig.defaults`. Be aware that a board-specific file will be generated by PlatformIO at build. It will be called `sdkconfig.*` followed by the specific board you have. If you have already tried to build before making this change, this file might already be present, and it might have the wrong flash size. In that case, since the file is auto-generated, you can just delete it.

